# Erdős Problem 52

## Metadata

- **Status:** open
- **Prize:** $250
- **Tags:** number theory, additive combinatorics
- **OEIS:** [A263996](https://oeis.org/A263996)
- **Source:** [erdosproblems.com/52](https://www.erdosproblems.com/52)

## Problem Statement

Let $A$ be a finite set of integers. Is it true that for every $\epsilon&#62;0$
$\max( \lvert A+A\rvert,\lvert AA\rvert)\gg_\epsilon \lvert A\rvert^{2-\epsilon}?$

## Background

The sum-product problem. Erdős and Szemer&#233;di [[ErSz83]](javascript:void(0);) proved a lower bound of $\lvert A\rvert^{1+c}$ for some constant $c&#62;0$, and an upper bound of $o(\lvert A\rvert^2)$. The lower bound has been improved a number of times. The current record is
$\max( \lvert A+A\rvert,\lvert AA\rvert)\gg\lvert A\rvert^{\frac{1558}{1167}-o(1)}$
due to Rudnev and Stevens [[RuSt22]](javascript:void(0);) (note $1558/1167=1.33504\cdots$). There is likely nothing special about the integers in this question, and indeed Erdős and Szemer&#233;di also ask a similar question about finite sets of real or complex numbers. The current best bound for sets of reals is the same bound of Rudnev and Stevens above. The best bound for complex numbers is
$\max( \lvert A+A\rvert,\lvert AA\rvert)\gg\lvert A\rvert^{\frac{5}{4}},$
due to Solymosi [[So05]](javascript:void(0);). One can in general ask this question in any setting where addition and multiplication are defined (once one avoids any trivial obstructions such as zero divisors or finite subfields). For example, it makes sense for subsets of finite fields. The current record is that if $A\subseteq \mathbb{F}_p$ with $\lvert A\rvert &#60;p^{5/8}$ then $\max( \lvert A+A\rvert,\lvert AA\rvert)\gg\lvert A\rvert^{\frac{11}{9}+o(1)},$
due to Rudnev, Shakan, and Shkredov [[RSS20]](javascript:void(0);). There is also a natural generalisation to higher-fold sum and product sets. For example, it is reasonable to conjecture (although I cannot find a record of Erdős himself actually doing so) that for any $m\geq 2$ and finite set of integers (or reals, etc) $A$ that
$\max( \lvert mA\rvert,\lvert A^m\rvert)\gg \lvert A\rvert^{m-o(1)}.$
See [[53]](https://www.erdosproblems.com/53) for more on this generalisation.

## Notes

sum-product problem
