# Erdős Problem 74

## Metadata

- **Status:** open
- **Prize:** $500
- **Formalized:** Yes ([Lean](https://github.com/google-deepmind/formal-conjectures/blob/main/FormalConjectures/ErdosProblems/74.lean))
- **Tags:** graph theory, chromatic number, cycles
- **Source:** [erdosproblems.com/74](https://www.erdosproblems.com/74)

## Definitions

For a given graph $G$ and size $n$, this defines the smallest number $k$
such that any subgraph of $G$ on $n$ vertices can be made bipartite by deleting
at most $k$ edges.

This value is optimal because it is the maximum of `minEdgeDistToBipartite` taken
over all $n$-vertex subgraphs. This means there exists at least one $n$-vertex
subgraph that requires exactly this many edge deletions.
This is Definition 3.1 in [EHS82].

[EHS82] Erdős, P. and Hajnal, A. and Szemerédi, E.,
  *On almost bipartite large chromatic graphs* Theory and practice of combinatorics (1982), 117-123.
-/
noncomputable def SimpleGraph.maxSubgraphEdgeDistToBipartite
    (G : SimpleGraph V) (n : ℕ) : ℕ := sSup <| SimpleGraph.subgraphEdgeDistsToBipartite G n

/--
Let $f(n)\to \infty$ possibly very slowly.
Is there a graph of infinite chromatic number such that every finite subgraph on $n$
vertices can be made bipartite by deleting at most $f(n)$ edges?

## Problem Statement

For a given subgraph `A`, this is the set of all numbers `k` such that `A` can be made
bipartite by deleting `k` edges.

## Variants and Related Results

Is there a graph of infinite chromatic number such that every finite subgraph on $n$
vertices can be made bipartite by deleting at most $\sqrt{n}$ edges?
